refactor(admin): refine data directory write-up in troubleshooting chapter (#14107)
nextcloud/documentation: admin_manual/issues/general_troubleshooting.rst

Troubleshooting data-directory
------------------------------

Moving the data directory / changing the ``datadirectory`` path
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For local storage, Nextcloud identifies storage by its absolute path on disk.
Ideally, the location of the data directory should not change after deployment. If
this is a new installation, consider reinstalling with your preferred directory
location before moving into production.

.. danger::
   If you must change the ``datadirectory`` path -- unless the transition is handled
   carefully -- Nextcloud will treat its content as "new storage." This can trigger
   duplicate or orphaned files, lost file metadata, and the loss of previously shared
   links.

> For safely moving the data directory, the recommended actions are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For safely moving the data directory, the recommended steps are:
```

> 1. Make sure no cron jobs are running and, if using system cron, that the Nextcloud crontab entry is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
0. Create a backup of your system - files and database - and test your recovery process.

1. Make sure no cron jobs are running and, if using system cron, that the Nextcloud crontab entry is disabled.
```

> 2. Stop web/app server(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Stop the web / app server(s).
```

> 3. Move ``/data`` to the new location (ensure you also move hidden/dot files such as ``.ncdata``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Move the entire ``/data`` firectory to the new location. Ensure you also move hidden/dot files such as ``.ncdata``.
```

> 4. Create a symlink from the original location to the new location.

Reviewer: original location of ``/data`` to new location of ``/data``?

> 5. Ensure permissions are still correct (including for any parent folders).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Ensure the folder permissions are still correct, including parent folders.
```

Maybe also mention which permissions or add a link to the relevant section

> 6. Restart web/app server(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Restart the web / app server(s).
```

7. Re-enable Nextcloud's system crontab entry (if applicable).

.. note::
   You may need to configure your web server to support symlinks.

It is also possible to move the data directory without using symlinks, but
this requires manually modifying the internal ``oc_storages`` database table:

1. Make sure no cron jobs are running and, if using system cron, that the Nextcloud crontab entry is disabled.

2. Stop web/app server(s).

3. Move ``/data`` to the new location (ensure you also move hidden/dot files such as ``.ncdata``).

4. Update the value of ``datadirectory`` in your ``config.php``.

5. Edit the database: In the ``oc_storages`` table, update the path portion of the ``id`` field of the entry
   beginning with ``local::/old-data-dir/`` (e.g., change ``local::/old-data-dir/`` to ``local::/new-data-dir/``).

6. Ensure permissions are still correct (including for any parent folders).

7. Restart web/app server(s).

8. Re-enable Nextcloud's system crontab entry (if applicable).

.. warning::
   This method is not supported and you risk breaking your database. Always make sure you
   have up-to-date backups -- including your database -- and a working (tested) restore

>    process **before** attempting this.

Reviewer: Move this on top so it's before the unsupported datadir migration method instructions?
